example/input/Details/Markdown Extensions.md, before:

##Background

Winged Spider went through a period of evolution like any project. Originally
it didn't use real markdown at all. The New Zealand Chess Federation website that
Winged Spider was built to maintain had menus plus content put together with
just four basic building blocks, called 'snippet', 'solo', 'panel' and 'grid'. Instead
of markdown Winged Spider used a custom text format designed to encode instances
of these building blocks only. They were 'marked up' using keywords identified
with a leading '@' character, still the favoured way of creating special Winged Spider
syntax (but now almost exclusively confined to templates). At a certain point a key improvement
idea emerged. Why not use normal Markdown instead, with the snippet, solo, panel and grid
features still available as extensions but now identified as distinctive patterns in the
markdown? After making this important improvement, all of markdown is now available to
supplement the original patterns that are still useful.

##Solo, Snippet, Panel and Grid

A 'solo' is a heading, plus an image plus some text that flows around the image. A
'snippet' is a 'solo' without an image. A 'panel' is a specially highlighted snippet.
A 'grid' is an attractive grid of annotated images.

The rest of this page illustrates exactly how these features work with examples.
Remember that these pages are themselves the Winged Spider example project (programmers often
use the unfortunate phrase 'eating your own dogfood' for this concept). If anything here
is unclear you can grab the example project to look at the original markdown that corresponds
to this page and experiment with it.

##This is an Example Solo
![Horses](images/horses.jpg)
For the website that Winged Spider was first used on, small stories were the bread and
butter components. A story was basically a heading, a picture and some text. Sometimes
the story didn't have a picture, so a distinction was made between stories with an image
(a 'solo') and stories without (a 'snippet').

Multiple paragraphs of text are possible, like this. To make a solo just like this, write
markdown like this;

###Code for the example solo

<pre>
<br>
##This is an Example Solo
![Horses](images/horses.jpg)
For the website that Winged Spider was first used on, small stories were the bread and
butter components. A story was basically a heading, a picture and some text. Sometimes
the story didn't have a picture, so a distinction was made between stories with an image
(a 'solo') and stories without (a 'snippet').
<br>
Multiple paragraphs of text are possible, like this. To make a solo just like this, write
markdown like this;
<br>
</pre>

The pattern is a ##heading, then a markdown image, then one or more paragraphs of text.
Blank lines should prefix and suffix the entire pattern (and the other patterns discussed
here). Any slight variation in the pattern, for example a blank line between the heading and the image
specification (which both use standard markdown syntax) will not trigger the special 'solo' template
and will just be passed through to the normal markdown processor. This is a feature not a bug,
perhaps you want to have a heading, an image and some paragraphs but not presented as a 'solo'
as defined in the Winged Spider template. That's okay, you can do it by (for example) introducing
a blank line after the header, or using the alternative underline header syntax, or making any other
deviation from the strict 'solo' pattern seen in the example above.

##This is an Example Snippet
In fact this is just normal markdown, it turned out that the concept of a snippet (a heading plus
text) was perfectly handled by markdown without any special syntax. There's no longer a '@snippet'
section in the template file. The idea of a snippet is retained only to help make sense of the
other markdown extensions.

###Code for the example snippet

Here is the (perfectly normal, no extensions) markdown corresponding to the example snippet above;

<pre>
<br>
##This is an Example Snippet
In fact this is just normal markdown, it turned out that the concept of a snippet (a heading plus
text) was perfectly handled by markdown without any special syntax (Doh!) There's no longer a '@snippet'
section in the template file. The idea of a snippet is retained only to help make sense of the
actual markdown extensions.
<br>
</pre>

##(panel)This is an Example Panel
A panel is like a snippet, but is reserved for something that serves as a special message that
attempts to draw the user's attention. In the standard template distributed with Winged Spider a
panel is a purple box.

Like a solo or a snippet, a panel can have multiple paragraphs like this.

###Code for the example panel

Here is the markdown corresponding to the example panel above (it's just a snippet with the special
intro text '(panel)';

<pre>
<br>
##(panel)This is an Example Panel
A panel is like a snippet, but is reserved for something that serves as a special message that
attempts to draw the user's attention. In the standard template distributed with Winged Spider a
panel is a purple box.
<br>
Like a solo or a snippet, a panel can have multiple paragraphs like this.
<br>
</pre>

##Putting Images in Grids

I wanted to use the facilities of the 'pure' CSS framework I was using to organise attractive grids
of annotated images. There are similar facilities in all of the competing CSS frameworks, but not
in unimproved markdown itself. I hope in time that there will be other Winged Spider templates
available for other popular CSS frameworks.

The @grid extensions I used in my pre-markdown markup system was a little clunky
and using specific patterns of real markdown instead is actually a great improvement. Here are some
examples;

###Rows of up to three images

![Horses](images/horses.jpg)This is a group of wild horses. All of these images were picked off [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com)
![Cat](images/cat.jpg)A cat. Helpfully [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com) offers completely free images with no need for royalties or even attribution, even for commercial purposes
![Another Cat](images/cat2.jpg)A second cat
![Eagle](images/eagle.jpg)An eagle is somehow always noble and dignified
![Dog](images/dog.jpg)This a rather attractive dog, it completes an array of five images using the default arrangement, which is rows of three with a ragged/incomplete final row if, as in this case, there is not a multiple of three images in the array

###Code for the three images in a row example

Here is the markdown corresponding to the five image array above. It is just normal markdown image
syntax, one image per line, at indent zero. There must be a blank line before and after the grid.
To avoid invoking the grid template feature, so that markdown image syntax is passed through to
the markdown processor instead, introduce something that violates this strict pattern (as
discussed previously for the solo pattern). Probably the simplest violation is an indent, even a
single leading space will do.

<pre>
<br>
![Horses](images/horses.jpg)This is a group of wild horses. All of these images were picked off [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com)
![Cat](images/cat.jpg)A cat. Helpfully [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com) offers completely free images with no need for royalties or even attribution, even for commercial purposes
![Another Cat](images/cat2.jpg)A second cat
![Eagle](images/eagle.jpg)An eagle is somehow always noble and dignified
![Dog](images/dog2.jpg)This a rather attractive dog, it completes an array of five images using the default arrangement, which is rows of three with a ragged/incomplete final row if, as in this case, there is not a multiple of three images in the array
<br>
</pre>

###Rows of less than three images

![Horses](images/horses.jpg)This is a group of wild horses. All of these images were picked off [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com)
![Cat](images/cat.jpg)A cat. Helpfully [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com) offers completely free images with no need for royalties or even attribution, even for commercial purposes

![Another Cat](images/cat2.jpg)A second cat
![Eagle](images/eagle.jpg)An eagle is somehow always noble and dignified

![Dog](images/dog.jpg)This a rather attractive dog, this time it occupies the whole row itself

###Code for the less than three images in a row example

Once again the grid pattern is just a list of images in markdown format, at zero indent, preceded and
succeeded by a blank line. The difference in this example to the previous one is that additional blank
lines are added, within the grid to break it up into groups of less than three images. These groups
get arranged into their own rows, of less than three images.

<pre>
<br>
![Horses](images/horses.jpg)This is a group of wild horses. All of these images were picked off [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com)
![Cat](images/cat.jpg)A cat. Helpfully [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com) offers completely free images with no need for royalties or even attribution, even for commercial purposes
<br>
![Another Cat](images/cat2.jpg)A second cat
![Eagle](images/eagle.jpg)An eagle is somehow always noble and dignified
<br>
![Dog](images/dog.jpg)This a rather attractive dog, this time it occupies the whole row itself
<br>
</pre>

Commit message:

Some grid template renaming, change @single -> @1of3, @1of2 -> @pair, @pair -> @2of3, @1of1 -> @single. Much more logical, so much so that I could stand to document these in the example project. Also eliminate unused @2of2 (whatever that was) and @snippet code

example/input/Details/Markdown Extensions.md, after:

##Background

Winged Spider went through a period of evolution like any project. Originally
it didn't use real markdown at all. The New Zealand Chess Federation website that
Winged Spider was built to maintain had menus plus content put together with
just four basic building blocks, called 'snippet', 'solo', 'panel' and 'grid'. Instead
of markdown Winged Spider used a custom text format designed to encode instances
of these building blocks only. They were 'marked up' using keywords identified
with a leading '@' character, still the favoured way of creating special Winged Spider
syntax (but now almost exclusively confined to templates). At a certain point a key improvement
idea emerged. Why not use normal Markdown instead, with the snippet, solo, panel and grid
features still available as extensions but now identified as distinctive patterns in the
markdown? After making this important improvement, all of markdown is now available to
supplement the original patterns that are still useful.

##Solo, Snippet, Panel and Grid

A 'solo' is a heading, plus an image plus some text that flows around the image. A
'snippet' is a 'solo' without an image. A 'panel' is a specially highlighted snippet.
A 'grid' is an attractive grid of annotated images.

The rest of this page illustrates exactly how these features work with examples.
Remember that these pages are themselves the Winged Spider example project (programmers often
use the unfortunate phrase 'eating your own dogfood' for this concept). If anything here
is unclear you can grab the example project to look at the original markdown that corresponds
to this page and experiment with it.

##This is an Example Solo
![Horses](images/horses.jpg)
For the website that Winged Spider was first used on, small stories were the bread and
butter components. A story was basically a heading, a picture and some text. Sometimes
the story didn't have a picture, so a distinction was made between stories with an image
(a 'solo') and stories without (a 'snippet').

Multiple paragraphs of text are possible, like this. To make a solo just like this, write
markdown like this;

###Code for the example solo

<pre>
<br>
##This is an Example Solo
![Horses](images/horses.jpg)
For the website that Winged Spider was first used on, small stories were the bread and
butter components. A story was basically a heading, a picture and some text. Sometimes
the story didn't have a picture, so a distinction was made between stories with an image
(a 'solo') and stories without (a 'snippet').
<br>
Multiple paragraphs of text are possible, like this. To make a solo just like this, write
markdown like this;
<br>
</pre>

The pattern is a ##heading, then a markdown image, then one or more paragraphs of text.
Blank lines should prefix and suffix the entire pattern (and the other patterns discussed
here). Any slight variation in the pattern, for example a blank line between the heading and the image
specification (which both use standard markdown syntax) will not trigger the special 'solo' template
and will just be passed through to the normal markdown processor. This is a feature not a bug,
perhaps you want to have a heading, an image and some paragraphs but not presented as a 'solo'
as defined in the Winged Spider template. That's okay, you can do it by (for example) introducing
a blank line after the header, or using the alternative underline header syntax, or making any other
deviation from the strict 'solo' pattern seen in the example above. Solo formatting is defined
by the @solo template in template-md.txt

##This is an Example Snippet
In fact this is just normal markdown, it turned out that the concept of a snippet (a heading plus
text) was perfectly handled by markdown without any special syntax. There's no longer a '@snippet'
section in the template file. The idea of a snippet is retained only to help make sense of the
other markdown extensions.

###Code for the example snippet

Here is the (perfectly normal, no extensions) markdown corresponding to the example snippet above;

<pre>
<br>
##This is an Example Snippet
In fact this is just normal markdown, it turned out that the concept of a snippet (a heading plus
text) was perfectly handled by markdown without any special syntax (Doh!) There's no longer a '@snippet'
section in the template file. The idea of a snippet is retained only to help make sense of the
actual markdown extensions.
<br>
</pre>

##(panel)This is an Example Panel
A panel is like a snippet, but is reserved for something that serves as a special message that
attempts to draw the user's attention. In the standard template distributed with Winged Spider a
panel is a purple box.

Like a solo or a snippet, a panel can have multiple paragraphs like this.

###Code for the example panel

The panel formatting is defined by the @panel template in template-md.txt. Here is the markdown
corresponding to the example panel above (it's just a snippet with the special
intro text '(panel)';

<pre>
<br>
##(panel)This is an Example Panel
A panel is like a snippet, but is reserved for something that serves as a special message that
attempts to draw the user's attention. In the standard template distributed with Winged Spider a
panel is a purple box.
<br>
Like a solo or a snippet, a panel can have multiple paragraphs like this.
<br>
</pre>

##Putting Images in Grids

I wanted to use the facilities of the 'pure' CSS framework I was using to organise attractive grids
of annotated images. There are similar facilities in all of the competing CSS frameworks, but not
in unimproved markdown itself. I hope in time that there will be other Winged Spider templates
available for other popular CSS frameworks.

The @grid extensions I used in my pre-markdown markup system was a little clunky
and using specific patterns of real markdown instead is actually a great improvement. Here are some
examples;

###Rows of up to three images

![Horses](images/horses.jpg)This is a group of wild horses. All of these images were picked off [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com)
![Cat](images/cat.jpg)A cat. Helpfully [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com) offers completely free images with no need for royalties or even attribution, even for commercial purposes
![Another Cat](images/cat2.jpg)A second cat
![Eagle](images/eagle.jpg)An eagle is somehow always noble and dignified
![Dog](images/dog.jpg)This a rather attractive dog, it completes an array of five images using the default arrangement, which is rows of three with a ragged/incomplete final row if, as in this case, there is not a multiple of three images in the array

###Code for the three images in a row example

Here is the markdown corresponding to the five image array above. It is just normal markdown image
syntax, one image per line, at indent zero. There must be a blank line before and after the grid.
To avoid invoking the grid template feature, so that markdown image syntax is passed through to
the markdown processor instead, introduce something that violates this strict pattern (as
discussed previously for the solo pattern). Probably the simplest violation is an indent, even a
single leading space will do.

<pre>
<br>
![Horses](images/horses.jpg)This is a group of wild horses. All of these images were picked off [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com)
![Cat](images/cat.jpg)A cat. Helpfully [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com) offers completely free images with no need for royalties or even attribution, even for commercial purposes
![Another Cat](images/cat2.jpg)A second cat
![Eagle](images/eagle.jpg)An eagle is somehow always noble and dignified
![Dog](images/dog2.jpg)This a rather attractive dog, it completes an array of five images using the default arrangement, which is rows of three with a ragged/incomplete final row if, as in this case, there is not a multiple of three images in the array
<br>
</pre>

###Rows of less than three images

![Horses](images/horses.jpg)This is a group of wild horses. All of these images were picked off [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com)
![Cat](images/cat.jpg)A cat. Helpfully [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com) offers completely free images with no need for royalties or even attribution, even for commercial purposes

![Another Cat](images/cat2.jpg)A second cat
![Eagle](images/eagle.jpg)An eagle is somehow always noble and dignified

![Dog](images/dog.jpg)This a rather attractive dog, this time it occupies the whole row itself

###Code for the less than three images in a row example

Once again the grid pattern is just a list of images in markdown format, at zero indent, preceded and
succeeded by a blank line. The difference in this example to the previous one is that additional blank
lines are added, within the grid to break it up into groups of less than three images. These groups
get arranged into their own rows, of less than three images.

<pre>
<br>
![Horses](images/horses.jpg)This is a group of wild horses. All of these images were picked off [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com)
![Cat](images/cat.jpg)A cat. Helpfully [pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com) offers completely free images with no need for royalties or even attribution, even for commercial purposes
<br>
![Another Cat](images/cat2.jpg)A second cat
![Eagle](images/eagle.jpg)An eagle is somehow always noble and dignified
<br>
![Dog](images/dog.jpg)This a rather attractive dog, this time it occupies the whole row itself
<br>
</pre>

###Grid Templates

Formatting of the grids is defined by the five grid templates in template-md.txt. The templates are
@single (a row of 1 large picture), @pair (a balanced row of 2 pictures), @triple (a full row of
three pictures), @1of3 (a ragged final row of just 1 small picture of 3) and @2of3 (a ragged final
row of 2 small pictures of 3).
