@Y 2019
@S Home Page Stories, 2019
@M index.html Home
@M archives.html Archives
@M archives-homepage.html Home Page
@M *archives-homepage-2019.html 2019
@M archives-homepage-2018.html 2018
@M archives-homepage-2017.html 2017
@M archives-homepage-2016.html 2016
@M archives-homepage-2015.html 2015
@M archives-homepage-2014.html 2014
@M archives-homepage-2013.html 2013
@M archives-homepage-2012.html 2012
@M archives-homepage-2011.html 2011
@M archives-homepage-2010.html 2010
@M archives-homepage-2009.html 2009
@M archives-homepage-2008.html 2008
@M archives-homepage-2007.html 2007

images/2019/NZ_Chess_Kiwi_R_WEB.jpg
Kiwi chess logo
@HPresident's Report 2019
NZCF President GM Murray Chandler has prepared a comprehensive report on a full
year of chess in New Zealand. You can read the full report <a href="NZCFdocs/2019PresidentReport.pdf">here</a>.

images/2018/herman.jpg
Herman van Riemsdijk is the latest IM to join the field
@HChristmas Gift for Chess Congress Late-comers
If you’re still thinking about whether to play in the 127th NZ Congress in Tauranga next month, Chief Organiser
Bob Smith is offering a Christmas incentive.
</p><p>
The latest deadline for entering the NZ Open, NZ Major Open and NZ Open Junior Championships is being extended
until 31st December.
</p><p>
So if you want to save some dollars get in your entry in the next 10 days.
</p><p>
After that the higher prices for those events kick in.
</p><p>
The NZ Rapid and NZ Lightning Championships can both be entered on the day (23rd and 24th January) without penalty.
</p><p>
So far the field for the NZ Open includes three Grandmasters, five International Masters and four Fide Masters.
</p><p>
Photo: Ever popular visitor and friend of New Zealand chess Herman van Riemsdjik of Brazil is the latest IM
to join the field

@snippet
@HRatings and Grand Prix Updates
Thanks to Rowan Wood and Michael Freeman for their ongoing work administrating the NZCF Ratings and Grand Prix systems
respectively. The latest updates are available on the <a href="resources.html">Resources</a> and <a href="grandprix.html">Grand Prix</a> pages respectively.

images/2019/siblings.jpg
Hunter, Grayson and Tyleah Po'e-Tofaeono
@HHunter, Grayson and Tyleah Po'e-Tofaeono
Young Aucklanders Tyleah(11), Hunter(10) and Grayson(8) Po'e-Tofaeono have grabbed some attention on and off
the chess board recently. The three siblings feature in a team of up to twelve Hillsborough Primary pupils
who are competing in Melbourne in the Australia ChessKids National finals competition. Other teams going to
Melbourne include groups from Mt Roskill Intermediate and Mt Roskill Grammar. The Pasifika siblings featured
in feel good stories on
<a href="https://www.rnz.co.nz/national/programmes/morningreport/audio/2018721954/pasifika-siblings-win-chess-champions-title">Radio New Zealand's Morning Report programme</a>
and also on
<a href="https://m.facebook.com/531pi/?ref=page_internal&mt_nav=0">Radio 531pi</a> (scroll down to find the video). A
<a href="https://givealittle.co.nz/cause/help-the-first-pasifika-chess-champions-compete">Givealittle campaign</a> to
help pay for the Australian trip has raised over $11000 so far (more than enough!).
</p><p>
Note that ChessKids is a private company in Australia, and similarly qualification for the Melbourne
event was earned at a tournament run by Chess Power, a private company independent of NZCF.

NZCFdocs/images/poisonpawnlogodd03.gif
Poison Pawn Grand Prix logo
@HGrand Prix Update
The second Grand Prix update of the year is now available (see the report on the <a href="grandprix.html">Grand Prix page</a>).
In the Open category there's a tight race this year, headed currently by Mike Steadman,
with Evan Capel and Alphaeus Ang in hot pursuit. Each of these players has been having a
great domestic season. Check the report for detailed results in all categories. Thanks to
Michael Freeman who not only is the major Poison Pawn sponsor (with help from D &amp; D Financial
Consultants), but who also calculates the results.
</p><p>
In somewhat related news, Rowan Wood points out that this could be the first year since
1993 with no North Island Rapid champs (a prestigious GP event). Perhaps it's not too
late for some enterprising and capable club to step up and organise the event? <b>Update 2:</b>
Mike Steadman and the Auckland Chess Centre have stepped up and answered the call - pencil
in December 7th (no longer 14th) at their Cromwell Street clubrooms. The event will be restricted to 50
entrants, due to venue capacity constraints, the event is now in the <a href="calendar.html">calendar</a>.

images/2019/new-caledonia.jpg
Samy Shoker, Shaun Press and Adrien Demuth
@HNZ Champions competing in New Caledonia
Paul Spiller reports:
<br>The 2019 New Caledonia Open took place in Noumea from October 12-19. It was the
culmination of a years planning by Ligue D'echecs de Nouvelle-Caledonie and its
president Jean-Jacques Testet.
A total of 38 players competed including French GM's Adrien Demuth & Samy Shoker,
co - NZ Champions IM's Russell Dive and Anthony Ker. Several other FMs and WFMs
competed including WFM Camille De Seroux from Switzerland and WFM Vivian Smith from NZ.
Players from Australia, PNG, & The Solomons also took part.
The photo shows GMs Samy Shoker &amp; Adrien Demuth with chief arbiter Shaun Press.
See also the <a href="results.html">Results Page</a>.

images/2019/south-island-champs.jpg
Eddie Lee and Matthew McNabb
@HSteadman Doubles up at the South Island Champs
Mike Steadman followed up his earlier triumph at the 2019 North Island championships
by completing the double at the South Island championships in Hanmer Springs. Full
results are of course on the <a href="results.html">results page</a>. The photo
shows Matthew McNabb and Eddie Lee, the South Island champions (Mike of course is a North Island interloper).

@snippet
@HCongress 2020 - Don't Miss Out
An important reminder from Congress Organiser Bob Smith: the first
deadline for payment is fast approaching. Save yourself some money
and get your entry in for the NZ Open or Major Open by 1st November.
</p><p>
The first ever Congress in Tauranga is shaping up to be one to
remember, with three GMs and five IMs already confirmed.
</p><p>
What better way to spend the height of summer than playing chess
in one of the country’s most beautiful and popular holiday spots?
</p><p>
Rooms are still available at the venue, the 4.5 star Trinity Wharf
(right on the water), but may not be for much longer.
Book now by phone 0800 5778700, and quote "New Zealand Chess
Champs" for a 20% discount.
</p><p>
More details on the entry form on the calendar page.
</p><p>
Any queries email Bob
<a href="mailto:caissa1530@gmail.com">caissa1530@gmail.com</a> or phone 0274786282.

@snippet
@HOlympiad 2020 – Player Applications Invited
The New Zealand Chess Federation is inviting applications for selection for the Open and
Women’s teams to participate in the 44th World Chess Olympiad, Moscow <strike>Khanty-Mansisyk</strike>, Russia,
1st to 15th of August 2020. There are five places in each team.
</p><p>
To apply players must complete the linked application form (<a href="Olympiad2020/Olympiad2020SelectionApplication.pdf">PDF</a>
and <a href="Olympiad2020/Olympiad2020SelectionApplication.doc">editable DOC</a>) and ensure it reaches the NZCF
Secretary by the 15th December, 2019. Selections will be announced by NZCF on or before
the 15th February 2020, after the selection panel takes into account results in the New
Zealand Championship in Tauranga in January.
</p><p>
One place in the Olympiad Open team can be won automatically by a player becoming outright
New Zealand Champion in Tauranga. That player may take up their place even if they have
not previously applied for selection.
</p><p>
Applicants should proceed on the basis that they will be required to pay their travel costs
to and from the Olympiad, although NZCF will seek to organize fund-raising
to reduce this if possible. As usual with chess Olympiads, food and accommodation are provided
free of charge.

NULL
NULL
@HSnippets
The South Island Championship in Hanmer Springs is underway and has attracted a strong field. You can
follow it on Vega <a href="tournaments/ch/2019/wwwSouthIsland2019/">here</a>.
Chief organiser and arbiter Craig Hall is getting games from the top ten boards onto the Vega
page promptly (each round is loaded by the end of the following round), and is also updating
a master consolidated PGN <a href="tournaments/ch/2019/wwwSouthIsland2019/pgn/SouthIsland2019.pgn">here</a>.
</p><p>
Note that a South Island Rapid champs will go ahead, not at Hanmer (the venue wasn't available) but
next month at the Canterbury Chess Club (see the <a href="calendar.html">calendar</a>).
</p><p>
Thanks to Philip Hair for completing another set of scans of enjoyable old New Zealand chess magazines, this time the
<i>New Zealand Chess Gazette</i> from the 1930s, which are now available <a href="nzchessmag-older.html">here</a> (look to the bottom of the page).
Thanks also to Hilton Bennett who provided these magazines.

images/2019/summit.jpg
Summit chess club logo
@H2019 Summit Rapid
The Summit Chess Club is still the new kid on the block as far as the Auckland chess scene is
concerned. But Ying Wang is an energetic organiser and the Summit club is determined to make
some noise and be noticed. The second annual Summit Rapid weekend open is coming up on November
17th. There are numerous attractive features, including the superb Alexandra Park venue and
a generous $1450 (Poison Pawn, D &amp; D Financial Consultants Grand Prand Prix Class 1) prizefund.
Check out more details on the <a href="calendar.html">Calendar Page</a>

images/2019/interschools-finals.jpg
2019 Interschools Finals
@H2019 Interschools Finals
<b>Mark Noble reports:</b> The National Interschools Finals was held on the 28th &amp; 29th of September.
A total of 66 Teams and over 270 players played in the event. A great spectacle to see.
</p><p>
In the Secondary Section Auckland Grammar were clear favourites to win the event with
Olympiad player Daniel Gong leading their side. The rug was quickly pulled out from
under their feet as Euan McDougall came in with the upset win against Daniel in the
4th round. This left the path open for Macleans College to sneak past and secure
victory.
</p><p>
The Intermediate Section was a smooth path to victory for the top seed Takapuna Normal.
This team managed the feat of winning all of their matches and with a score of 23 wins,
4 draws and only 1 loss.
</p><p>
The Primary Section was very tightly contested between Milford, Pinehurst and Hillborough
with all three finishing on a score of 11/14 Match points.  Milford and Pinehurst even
had the exact same number of games won in the event (21) and so a second tie break was
needed to declare Milford the Primary National Champions.
</p><p>
It is great to see such tight competition and will be very interesting to see how these
teams get on in future years.
Results are on the <a href="intschoolsresults2019.html">Interschools Results Page</a>.
</p><p>
<b>Photo:</b> <i>Photo courtesy of <a href="https://newzealandchess.nz/">NZ Chess News</a></i>

NULL
NULL
@HA Couple of NZCF Announcements
<b>1)</b> Interschools Finals 2020 – Expression of Interest invited
</p><p>
NZCF Council invites Expressions of Interest from organisers wishing to stage the
Interschools Finals, 26-27 September 2020. The Interschools Finals is the premier
team event for junior players in New Zealand. School teams qualify for the national
finals from Regional competitions played throughout New Zealand, in which over 2000
individual pupils traditionally take part.
</p><p>
Expressions of interest may be emailed to the NZCF Secretary
<a href="mailto:secretary@newzealandchess.co.nz">secretary@newzealandchess.co.nz</a>
by 15th October 2019, for consideration at the NZCF Council meeting end of October.
</p><p>
<b>2)</b> Measles Advisory
</p><p>
Please check the <a href="NZCFdocs/NZCF MEASLES ADVISORY.pdf">NZCF Measles Advisory</a>.

images/2018/OceaniaYouth2019.jpg
Oceania Youth 2019
@HTitles for NZ Players
They've taken a while to come through, but thankfully new direct titles from the Guam Oceania Zonal, and
the Auckland Oceania Junior Championship events have now been awarded. From the Guam event, John Duneas is
now an FM and Tony Dowden a CM. From the Oceania Junior Alphaeus Ang and Allen Fan are now FMs. There are
also a number of titles pending achievement of rating minimums, as follows;
</p><p>
<ul>
<li>Meng, Richard - FM title Conditional 2100 rating</li>
<li>Renjith, Sravan - FM title Conditional 2100 rating</li>
<li>Qin, Oscar - CM title Conditional 2000 rating</li>
<li>Zhang, Kendrick - CM title Conditional 2000 rating</li>
<li>Zhang, Jasmine - WIM title Conditional 2000 rating</li>
<li>Braganza, Nadia - WFM title Conditional 1900 rating</li>
<li>Yuan, Kimberley - WCM title Conditional 1800 rating</li>
<li>Ning, Isabelle - WCM title Conditional 1800 rating</li>
<li>Xu, Hannah - WCM title Conditional 1800 rating</li>
</ul>
</p><p>
These titles now appear on the lists in the <a href="resources.html">Resources</a> page. Keong Ang reports that
Jasmine Zhang should achieve the rating threshold this Sunday September 1 when the next FIDE rating list is announced (<b>Update:</b> Confirming that Jasmine reached the threshold and her WIM title is now officially confirmed on the FIDE website).

images/2019/peter-stuart-memorial.jpg
Felix Xie with Neil Gunn
@HSnippets
The North Shore weekender is a long standing fixture on the chess calendar. Now renamed for
its late founder, the Peter Stuart Memorial was held this year on the weekend of 24th and 25th
August, and the Open Tournament finished in a three way tie between Alphaeus Ang, Evan Capel and Ben
Hague. The photo (credit: Helen Milligan) shows Felix Xie receiving a prize from club Vice President Neil Gunn. Felix
was the lowest rated player in the Open, but scored very well. See the <a href="results.html">Results<a> page and also the new <a href="archives-tournaments-2019.html">Archives</a> pages.
<p></p>
The NZ Chess History project is slowly making progress. Not only are the Archives pages taking shape,
the first tranche of 23 issues of the impressive New Zealand Chessplayer magazine is now complete, it
can be viewed <a href="nzchessmag-older.html">here</a>. Thanks to Philip Hair for the hard work of scanning these magazines.
<p></p>
Last but not least Michael Freeman has delivered a Grand Prix progress report (see the <a href="grandprix.html">GP Page</a>).

images/2019/heritage-hotel.jpg
Heritage Hotel, Hamner Springs
@HSouth Island Championships in Hamner Springs
New Zealand’s most picturesque spa town will be the location of this year's South
Island Championship, October 5th-10th. Open to all (including overseas players),
the event features $5000 in prizes, thanks to generous support from NZCF and
Benson Insurance Brokers.
<p></p>
The venue is the fine Heritage Hotel in the Hanmer Springs town centre. The top
South Island Player will be crowned 2019 Champion, while all New Zealand players
will be eligible to win New Zealand National Master Title Points for coming in
1st-4th place. For Entry form and further details see the <a href="calendar.html">Calendar page</a>.

images/2019/solomons.jpg
Solomon Islands
@HFIDE Arbiters' Seminar in the Solomon Islands
<p>A FIDE Arbiters' Seminar is going to be organized from 4th to 6th September 2019 in Honiara, Solomon Islands, by the Solomon Islands Chess Federation, under the auspices of FIDE.
<br>The venue of the Seminar will be the National Olympic Committee of Solomon Islands Conference Room in Honiara.
<br>The Lecturer will be IA Press, Shaun (PNG), FIDE Lecturer.
<br>The Seminar will give norms and titles of FIDE Arbiter, according to the Regulations for the titles of Arbiters.
<br>
<br>For more detailed information:
<br>Anthony Maelasi
<br>Email: <a href="mailto:amaelasi@gmail.com">amaelasi@gmail.com</a>
<br>Phone: +677 7246165
<br>
<br>All Oceania Federations are invited to send participants to this seminar. The Oceania Chess Confederation may be able to offer some funding to assist with expenses.

images/2019/nz-jnr-snr.jpg
Mike Steadman, Alphaeus Ang, and Dr Tony Booth
@HSenior, Junior and Oceania Senior Champions
The Howick-Pakuranga Festival tournaments are complete, and the trophies and prizes have been
distributed. All the results are on the <a href="results.html">Results</a> page.
The photo montage shows NZ and Oceania Senior Champion Mike Steadman and NZ Junior Champion Alphaeus Ang along
with organiser and Howick-Pakuranga stalwart Dr Tony Booth.
<p></p>
See also the <a href="https://www.facebook.com/NewZealandChessFederation/posts/621693961611754?comment_id=623347404779743">NZCF Facebook page</a>.
<br>Special thanks to sponsors Poison Pawn and D &amp; D Financial Consultants.

images/2019/nzjuniorchamps.jpg
NZ Junior Champs Panorama
@HHowick-Pakuranga Festival of Chess
Howick-Pakuranga Chess Club are marking their 50th anniversary in appropriate fashion by running a series
of important tournaments, as can be seen on the <a href="calendar.html">Calendar</a>. First up is the NZ
Junior Championship, shown in our action shot here. Next comes the Oceania &amp; New Zealand Senior Championship,
<b>update:</b> which is now underway,
liveboard link <a href="http://view.livechesscloud.com/213d6f90-0be9-47f5-b4b7-7fa63fa8979d">here</a>.
</p><p>
The tournaments are being held at the Howick Bowling
Club and spectators are welcome. So if you're in Auckland, why not drop in and check out the action. Thanks
to sponsors Poison Pawn and D &amp; D Financial Consultants.

nzchessmag/thumbnails/1947-spring.jpg
New Zealand Chessplayer Magazine
@HPeter Stuart NZ Database Update
After negotiating some initial speedbumps the Peter Stuart NZ Chess Database is now being
smoothly updated. This project has its home on the <a href="history.html">History</a> page. The
latest update includes
all the A Grade games from the 2019 edition of NZ's biggest Open, the 42nd Trusts (thank you Bob Smith - see another
contribution from Bob <a href="nzchessmag/interactive/2019-06-bob-smith.html">here</a>).
</p><p>
There's also
now a complete collection of 2018 North Island Championship games, plus Bob Mitchell's World Amateur
Championship games and other games from recent <a href="nzchessbulletin.html">NZ Chess Bulletins</a>.
There's not only some very recent
Auckland Interclub games, there's also a game from the 1947 Auckland Interclub. From the 2nd grade fixture
between the Dominion Road and Papatoetoe chess clubs to be precise. That might not sound very exciting,
but it was actually a fabulous game with a beautiful mating finish. One of the great things about our game
is how amazing action highlights can be preserved in perfect fidelity forever.
</p><p>
The 1947 game was transcribed from the first issue of <a href="nzchessmag-older.html">The New
Zealand Chessplayer</a> magazine. We are steadily scanning and uploading all 23 issues of this excellent older
magazine. All the chess from the first
issue has been transcribed and made <a href="nzchessmag/interactive/1947-spring.html">live and interactive</a>.
And of course all the NZ games that were transcribed are in the latest
version of the Peter Stuart NZ database. Some excellent Bob Wade games that don't appear in the standard
databases are amongst the gems here.

images/2019/bob-mitchell.jpg
Bob Mitchell
@HSnippets
The latest issue of the experimental NZ Chess Bulletin interactive magazine is now <a href="nzchessmag/interactive/2019-06.html">available</a>.
It features a report from Bob Mitchell (pictured) on his remarkable victory in an Amateur Senior World
Championship tournament last year! Amongst other things we learn that as the wins rolled in Bob
allowed himself a dram or two. A must read!
</p><p>
One of the benefits of an online magazine is that past mistakes can be rectified, and a small article from Bob Smith that was inadvertently omitted
from he June issue <a href="nzchessmag/interactive/2019-06-bob-smith.html">has been added in July</a>.
</p><p>
The traditional Upper Hutt tournament was won by Scott Wastney, completing a Wellington
Open Rapid double after his recent Kapiti win. One of Scott's wins features in the
<a href="nzchessmag/interactive/2019-06.html">NZ Chess Bulletin</a> discussed above (thanks Brian Nijman for happily annotating a loss!).
</p><p>
Check the <a href="calendar.html">Calendar</a> for an exciting new venue for the North Island championships in July next year.
</p><p>
Finally a plea from Stan Yee for tournament organisers to make sure they're using the
latest Vega (v8.1.1.1 currently). Download instructions are on the <a href="resources.html">Resources</a> page.

images/2019/PeterStuartTrainingTourneyPromotion.jpg
Peter Stuart Training Tourney Promotion
@HPeter Stuart Training Tournament
Eagle eyed visitors to our tournament <a href="calendar.html">Calendar</a> will have noticed a new event
was recently added for the weekend of July 20th and 21st.
</p><p>
The Peter Stuart training tournament is an innovation from North Shore Chess Club. As
the name suggests, the emphasis of the tournament is on training and improvement. The
tournament is funded by Peter Stuart's bequest to North Shore chess club and the goal
is to further Peter's vision of promoting junior chess and instilling love for the
game.
</p><p>
The key innovation in this tournament is on-site coaching from GM Dejan Bojkov and
others for immediate feedback <i>between rounds</i>. Truly striking while the iron
is hot and helping players improve their thinking process while their game thoughts
are still fresh in their minds! North Shore are promising more initiatives in a similar
vein so stay tuned. All the details are on the <a href="calendar.html">Calendar Page</a>.

NULL
NULL
@HRevamp of the New Zealand National Master Title
NZCF Council has drawn up new rules for qualifying for the title of New Zealand
National Master, and is inviting public consultation before they come into
effect in July. The structure will remain the same as previously, where 100
Master Points (gained from good results in tournaments) will qualify for the
National Master Title, or 40 Master Points will gain the Candidate Master Title.
However the range of events whereby players can qualify for master points has
been greatly broadened. Previously master points could only be won in a handful
of official NZCF events. Under the new rules all significant Open and All-Play-
All events staged in New Zealand can now potentially qualify for the awarding of
Master Points.
</p><p>
Any Master Points that players have previously won shall continue to be valid.
</p><p>
More detailed information is available in this
<A HREF="downloads/NZ MASTER TITLE DRAFT 01.pdf">document</A>.
</p><p>
Comments or suggestions for NZCF Council to consider may be emailed to
<a href="mailto:secretary@newzealandchess.co.nz">secretary@newzealandchess.co.nz</a>
by 25th June.

images/2019/trusts.jpg
Evan Capel wins the 42nd Trusts
@H42nd Trusts Open
Evan Capel took care of business in the 42nd Trusts Open to win New Zealand's biggest
weekend prize. With multiple winner Ben Hague absent, and top seed and defending champion
Anthony Ker out of form, Evan did what he needed to do conceding just two draws and scoring
a solid FIDE 2300 performance. Others to impress included dark horses John Duneas (2nd= with
upset wins over Ker and Steadman), David Vincenti (2nd= and undefeated) and Bob Gibbons
(6th, upset 1st round win over Ker, +44 FIDE points and U2200 1st).
</p><p>
Some games are available from the Vega page (see the <a href="results.html">Results page</a>),
others are still currently available from the weekend's
<a href="http://view.livechesscloud.com/e50f865a-9fa3-4fa0-904f-3dd130bb1af5">live link</a>
(thanks Ying Wang), and many more will appear in the
<a href="history.html">Peter Stuart NZ Database</a> as soon as possible.
</p><p>
<b>Photo:</b> <i>Evan Capel, photo courtesy of <a href="https://newzealandchess.nz/2019/results.html">NZ Chess News</a></i>

images/2019/kapiti.jpg
Kapiti Rapid, juniors at the front
@HTournaments Small, and Big
The annual Kapiti Rapid is an important event in the Wellington region. This
year's version featured a happy and surprisingly large (see photo) crowd for
what is usually a small affair. A new generation competed in a both the main
event and a separate junior tournament. FM Scott Wastney held off rivals
IMs Dive and Ker for first prize, and Aucklander Romie Guerro slipped
through the gap to take second (see <a href="results.html">Results</a>). Thanks to Gordon Lyall and
the re-energised Kapiti Club management for a very successful event.
</p><p>
By way of contrast, the Trusts Open is by far the biggest weekend
tournament, and the 42nd annual tournament is taking place on Queens Birthday weekend June 1st-3rd,
so act quickly and secure your place.  All the details are on the <a href="calendar.html">Calendar</a>.
</p><p>
<b>Photo credit:</b> <i>Gordon Lyall</i>

images/2019/feetup.jpg
Feet up on chess board
@HNew NZCF Constitution
At the NZCF AGM in January a new Constitution was approved by member clubs to simplify administration.
Regular tournament players are no longer required to be individual direct members of NZCF at a cost of
$20 each. Henceforth simply being a member of any NZCF Affiliated or Associated Club now entitles a
player to participate in NZCF rated tournaments.
</p><p>
As a result the charging system for Clubs to be registered for 2019 is now also changed, with Clubs
paying a flat-rate charge of $10 per club member as follows:
</p><p>
<b>NZCF Affiliated Clubs:</b> Will declare their Club Membership figures (emailing the list of names to NZCF)
on 15th November 2019. Affiliated Clubs will be invoiced $10 per Club Member to retrospectively cover
the year 2019, with payment due by 31st December 2019.
</p><p>
<b>NZCF Associated Clubs:</b> Will declare their year 2019 Club Membership figures (emailing the list of
names to NZCF) no later than 31st January 2020. Associated Clubs will be invoiced $10 per Club
Member to retrospectively cover the year 2019, with payment due by 28th February 2020.
</p><p>
This new system removes a great deal of needless bureaucracy that was affecting tournament organisers and
Club officials, and it also supports Members Clubs by making club membership compulsory.
</p><p>
<b>Photo:</b> <i>The simplifying changes means that organisers and officials can now hopefully put their feet up a little more</i>

images/2019/charomova.jpg
Jennya Charomova
@HJennya Charomova vs The Public
Paul Spiller reports on some welcome coverage of chess in the mainstream media.
Jennya Charomova represented NZ at the 2002 Bled Olympiad and was NZ Women's champion
in 2005 (see the <a href="nzchessmag/pdfs/2005-10.pdf">NZ Chess report<a>). After many years away from NZ, she's back,
studying in Christchurch, and playing chess. This <a href="https://www.nzherald.co.nz/nz/news/article.cfm?c_id=1&objectid=12229631">NZ Herald story</a> tells
the story, including an upcoming (at the time) public simul in Christchurch. Paul tells us that the simul went well
with Jennya scoring 14-2 against the public.

images/2019/NZ_Chess_Kiwi_R_WEB.jpg
Kiwi chess logo
@HBids invited for staging NZCF official events in 2020
<p>NZCF invites all member Clubs and any other interested parties to consider
bids for organising the following official events in 2020:
<ul>
<li>North Island Championships</li>
<li>South Island Championships</li>
<li>New Zealand Junior Championships</li>
<li>New Zealand Senior Championships</li>
</ul>
Please send expressions of interest by 15th June 2019 to the NZCF Secretary Winsome
Stretch: email
<a href="mailto:secretary@newzealandchess.co.nz">secretary@newzealandchess.co.nz</a>.

images/2019/nichamps.jpg
Mike Steadman wins 2019 North Island Champs
@HNorth Island Championship
<p>Mike Steadman won last year's North Island Championships in Palmerston North in dominating fashion with
a picket fence scoreline. To his credit, Mike is travelling south again to defend his title. This time he will have
to get past each of the four "big dogs" (this is Mike's own idiosyncratic term) from the nation's capital, as well
as perennial contender Bob Smith and a host of other worthies if he wants to hold onto his title.
The tournament (which incorporates the traditional Wellington Easter Open) is being held at
the CQ Hotel in downtown Wellington over all four days of Easter.
<br>Follow on Vega <a href="tournaments/bp/2019/www2019NorthIsland/">here</a>.
<p></p>Update: Fifth seed Mike delivered in emphatic fashion, scoring 7.5/8 against a much stronger field than
last year, with a FIDE 2448 performance rating and a gain of 40 FIDE Elo points as rewards to go with the prize
money and trophy.
</p><p>
<b>Photo:</b> <i>Mike Steadman receives the trophy from chief tournament organiser Ross Jackson</i>

images/2019/thames.jpg
Thames v Franklin
@HInterclub Chess Match between the Franklin Chess Club and the Thames Chess Club
<b>A report from Ron Lanning of the Franklin CC: </b>
On Saturday 23rd March the Franklin CC travelled to the Thames CC to
play an interclub match. The event was accompanied by a morning tea of biscuits, chocolate
eggs, tea and coffee. The Match was officially won by the Franklin team by 6-4 but it was
a close run thing, it was 3 games each after 6 games! The Games were played in tremendous
spirit and the day was a very enjoyable one for all involved. Interclub matches between
the two clubs will be run twice a year. Contact details for both clubs are on the <a href="chessclubs.html">Chess Clubs</a> page.
</p><p>
Many thanks to Russell from the Thames Club for organising the match and to Age Concern Thames
for allowing us to use their premises.

NULL
NULL
@HJETS Junior Training
The New Zealand Chess Federation is pleased to announce that we have the opportunity for
two young New Zealand players to attend the Australian JETS (Junior Elite Training Squad) camp
to be held in Adelaide from July 10th to 14th 2019. <b>Note:</b> Applications close April 15th.
</p><p>
For more information and to apply for one of the spots please download the <A HREF="downloads/JetsNz2019.pdf">application form</A>.

NULL
NULL
@H2020 Congress Entry Form
A comprehensive entry form containing all the details about the exciting Tauranga Congress in January 2020
is now available. See the <a href="calendar.html">Calendar page</a>.

NULL
NULL
@HNZ Chess Bulletin, March 2019
A second issue of the experimental NZ Chess Bulletin online magazine is now
available <a href="nzchessmag/interactive/2019-03.html">here</a>.

NZCFdocs/images/poisonpawnlogodd03.gif
Poison Pawn Grand Prix logo
@H2018 Grand Prix Results
2018 Grand Prix Standings are now available on the <a href="grandprix.html">Grand Prix page</a>.
A total of $6520 of prizes are to be distributed amongst 31 players competing in 10
categories. The Grand Prix is designed to reward consistent good performance in
tournaments throughout New Zealand.
</p><p>
Ben Hague once again takes out the top prize of $1500.
</p><p>
NZCF would like to once again thank the Grand Prix sponsors, Poison Pawn and
D &amp; D Financial Consultants, and the people behind those organisations Michael
Freeman and Martin Dreyer for their continuing generous support.
</p><p>
The official prizegiving will once again be at the Latvian Rapid on
March 16th (see the <A HREF="calendar.html">Calendar</A>). If you've won a prize email the
NZCF Treasurer Winsome Stretch at
<A HREF="mailto:secretary@newzealandchess.co.nz">secretary@newzealandchess.co.nz</A>
to discuss collecting your prize.

images/2019/guam.jpg
Guam Opening
@HGuam Oceania Zonal
The picture shows FIDE president Arkady Dvorkovich playing the ceremonial first moves against Lt. Governor Josh Tenorio of Guam to
mark the opening of the 2019 Zone 3.6 Championships being held there from February 18th to 23rd.
As revealed in the pilot (trial?) issue of <a href="nzchessmag/interactive/2019-02.html">The New Zealand Chess Bulletin</a> the tournament featured
a massive upset in round 1.
</p><p>
<b>Photo credit:</b> <i>Paul Spiller</i>

images/2019/hawkes-bay-winners.jpg
Hawkes Bay Winners
@HHawkes Bay Rapid
Weekend tournaments in two of the most beautiful parts of the country are a perennial highlight of this time of year. A visitor from the south swept
in to pick up first prize at the Hawkes Bay Rapid, see the <a href="results.html">Results</a> page. Next
up is the Bay of Plenty Rapid on February 23rd, see the <a href="calendar.html">Calendar</a> page.
</p><p>
<b>Photo:</b> <i>Happy prize winners set to enjoy some fine Hawkes Bay produce. L to R; Tobey Hughes, Bob Smith, Felix
Xie, Evan Capel, William Duncan, Stephen Lukey, Viv Smith and Bernard Carpinter. No doubt Felix will be
cellaring his prize for ten years or so.</i>

images/2019/gareyev-simul.jpg
GM Gareyev Simul
@HBlindfold Clock Simul in Wellington
Blindfold king Timur Gareyev took on twelve players in a hastily organised evening exhibition
on the first Wellington club night of 2019. Juniors Ryan Winter and Michael Sole managed
a win and a draw respectively, while the grandmaster scored eight wins. The other two
games were also draws, and were distinguished by the novelty feature of IMs Ker and Dive
playing blindfold themselves. On the plus side they did have scoresheets and empty boards but
playing without increment was a significant handicap, especially as Russell tried to convert
a winning ending. Down to less than a minute, Russell sportingly continued to write down his
moves before pressing his clock, and a gentlemen's draw was really the only satisfactory
conclusion. Coverage (including a short video) on Stuff.co.nz <a href="https://www.stuff.co.nz/dominion-post/110313450/playing-chess-blindfolded-on-exercise-bike-like-painting-says-grandmaster-timur-gareyev">here</a>.
</p><p>
<b>Photo:</b> <i>GM Gareyev puts in the miles as he takes on twelve locals in Wellington. The joint
NZ Champions can be seen carefully studying their empty boards. Club Captain Phil
Rossiter handles the move calling duties.</i>

images/2019/congress-blitz2.jpg
Congress Blitz
@HA Successful 126th Congress
Thanks to Chief Organiser Paul Spiller, hosts Howick-Pakuranga Chess Club, chief sponsor
Kasparov Chess Foundation Asia Pacific, Grand Prix sponsors Michael Freeman and Martin Dreyer,
plus arbiters Bruce Pollard, Craig Hall and Ying Wang for putting on another great tournament
at a great location. The overseas marquee
players showed their class. GM Gareyev followed up his unbeaten equal first in the NZ Open
with dominant 8.5/9 and 9/9 scores in the Rapid and Blitz respectively. Amongst the locals, the
established elite showed they aren't ready to relinquish their grip in classical chess, but a new
generation shone in rapid and blitz. All results on the <a HREF="results.html">Results Page</a>.
</p><p>
<b>Photo:</b> <i>The spirit of chess on display as congress wraps up (this is round 8 of 9 in the Blitz Championships).
Locals Ralph Hart and Evan Capel <a HREF="tournaments/bp/2019/wwwcongress2019lightning/pairs8.html">are about to beat</a> a Russian GM and an Australian IM respectively</i>

NULL
NULL
@HSummer of Chess in Full Swing
The George Trundle and the Oceania Youth Championships are finished. Full results are available on the
<a HREF="results.html">Results Page</a>.
</p><p>
Congress is now complete as well. In the Open Championship Clarke draws in the last round, Gareyev wins to join him as 1st= on 7/9. IMs Ker and
Dive both draw to finish as NZ leaders and so joint NZ champions on 6/9. For more see the <a HREF="results.html">Results Page</a>.
<p></p>
The Rapid and Blitz championships were held on the last two days. Links:
<br>NZ Rapid Championship <a HREF="http://newzealandchess.co.nz/tournaments/bp/2019/wwwcongress2019rapid/">Vega page</a>
<br>NZ Lightning Championship <a HREF="http://newzealandchess.co.nz/tournaments/bp/2019/wwwcongress2019lightning/">Vega page</a>
</p><p>
Rowan Wood on Chesschat.org sums up the Rapid Tournament. "GM Timur Gareyev has won the NZ Rapid tournament with 8.5
points after he defeated Anthony Ker in the last round. He finished one and a half points clear of three players, including
the new NZ Rapid title winner, Ralph Hart. Hart won the title with a win over David Notley. Congratulations. In a surprising
second place for the NZ title is Sravan Renjith with 6.5 points. He was undefeated with 4 wins and 5 draws. GM Gareyev was
the only other unbeaten player. Renjith won his last round game against Johnson Li. On 6 points, Anthony Ker and Russell Dive."
</p><p>
<br>NZ Open Championship PGN rounds 1 to 9 <a HREF="downloads/NzOpenChampionship2019.pgn">here</a>
<br>NZ Major Open PGN rounds 1 to 9 <a HREF="downloads/NzMajorOpen2019.pgn">here</a>
<br>NZ Open Championship <a HREF="http://www.newzealandchess.co.nz/tournaments/bp/2019/wwwcongress2019open/">Vega page</a>
<br>NZ Major Open Championship <a HREF="http://www.newzealandchess.co.nz/tournaments/bp/2019/wwwcongress2019majoropen/">Vega page</a>
<br>NZ Open Junior Championship <a HREF="tournaments/bp/2019/wwwcongress2019junior/">Vega page</a> <a HREF="results.html">Results</a>
<br>George Trundle PGN rounds 1 to 9 <a HREF="downloads/GeorgeTrundle2019.pgn">here</a>
<br>Oceania Juniors Open U20 PGN rounds 1 to 9 <a HREF="downloads/OceaniaJuniors2019.pgn">here</a>
